Add first blog post for temporal_rs and general Boa Temporal work (#195)
boa-dev/boa-dev.github.io: blog/2025-06-15-temporal-impl-1.md

---
layout: post
tags: [post]
title:
  Implementing Temporal, the new date/time API for JavaScript (and
  Rust!)
metadata: ["temporal", "temporal_rs", "boa", "date/time"]
description:
  A blog post about the temporal_rs Rust crate that implements
  JavaScript's Temporal API and how temporal_rs supports implementing
  Temporal in JavaScript engines.
authors: boa-dev
---

This will be a series of posts primarily about implementing a new
JavaScript feature in Rust, specifically the new date/time built-in:
Temporal. We'll be going over the general implementation of Temporal in

> Boa as well as the crates supporting that implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Temporal. We'll be going over general lessons and interesting design choices we've
stumbled upon, as well as the crates supporting that implementation.
```

Why should you care? Well we are not only implementing it for

> JavaScript, but Rust as well ... more on that in a bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why should you care? Well, we are not only implementing it for
JavaScript, but using Rust to implement it as well ... more on that in a bit.
```

Author: The well is correct for the pause.

I don't know if I agree with the rewording on the second. We're the Rust javaScript engine, so naturally we'd implement things in Rust. Unless we one day decide to use something separate from rust. Anyways, it does point to there being potential confusion with the wording, so it should be fixed.

What I mean was that we are implementing Temporal but also for native Rust.

Maybe:

"We are not only implementing Temporal for JavaScript, but for Rust as well ... more on that in a bit"

That's more clear and conveys the intent better.

Author: Although, to be fair, it may be worth to throw in a line about the project being a JavaScript engine in Rust so that the information is self contained on the post.

Reviewer: I like your suggested change more

First, an aside!

## What even is Temporal?

Temporal is a modern API for handling date/time in a calendar and time
zone aware manner that includes nine objects with over 200+ methods.

In JavaScript, Temporal is a global built-in namespace object that
includes each of these nine built-ins:

- `Temporal.Now`
- `Temporal.PlainDate`
- `Temporal.PlainTime`
- `Temporal.PlainDateTime`
- `Temporal.ZonedDateTime`
- `Temporal.Duration`
- `Temporal.Instant`
- `Temporal.PlainYearMonth`
- `Temporal.PlainMonthDay`

But to be honest, this post isn't meant to give an overview of Temporal
and its general API. If Temporal is news to you and you are interested
in learning more, feel free to check out the phenomenal [MDN
documentation][mdn-temporal].

## Back on track

Being a JavaScript engine / interpreter, implementing the ECMAScript
specification is our raison d'être. One of our primary goals is to
implement the specification to high degree of conformance. This is even
more so important because Temporal represents roughly 7-8% of the

> current conformance test suite (~4000 of the ~50,000 tests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Being Boa a JavaScript engine / interpreter, developing a correct
implementation of the ECMAScript specification is our raison d'être.
This, in consequence, makes implementing Temporal one of our most
important goals, since it represents roughly 7-8% of the
current conformance test suite (~4000 of the ~50,000 tests).
```

When the PR of the first prototype of Temporal for Boa was submitted a

> few things became evident.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the PR of the first prototype of Temporal for Boa was submitted, a
few things became evident:
```

1. Date/Time is a complicated beast (duh)
2. There's room for optimization and improvement
3. This would be handy to have in Rust

> So after the prototype was merged, the prototype was pulled out of Boa's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So after the prototype was merged, we pulled it out of Boa's
```

internal builtins and externalized into its own crate,
[`temporal_rs`][temporal-rs-repo], which then first landed behind an
experimental flag in Boa v0.18.

After over a year and a half of development, Boa now sits at about 90%
overall conformance for Temporal and growing with the entire

> implementation backed by `temporal_rs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After over a year and a half of development, Boa now sits at a conformance
of about 90% for Temporal (and growing), with the entire implementation
being backed by `temporal_rs`.
```

For its part, `temporal_rs` is shaping up to be a proper Rust date/time
library that can be used to implement temporal in a JavaScript engine or

> for general usage purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
library that can be used to implement Temporal in a JavaScript engine, and even support general date/time use cases.
```

So let's take a look at Temporal: it's JavaScript API, it's Rust API in
`temporal_rs`, and how `temporal_rs` supports implementing the

> specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's take a look at Temporal: it's JavaScript API, it's Rust API in
`temporal_rs`, and how `temporal_rs` supports implementing the
specification.
```

## Important core differences

> Let's briefly talk about JavaScript values (`JsValue`). This is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, JavaScript values (`JsValue`). This is
```

Author: Not sure this makes much sense. We'd have "Firstly, JavaScript values" ... maybe: "Firstly, let's briefly talk about JavaScript values".

Reviewer: Was an attempt to avoid using "let's" twice (it was used in the previous paragraph). Any other wording should be good if it doesn't use "let's" again

Reviewer: "First, we need to talk about JavaScript values (`JsValue`) for a bit." maybe?

functionally the core `any` value type of JavaScript. A `JsValue` could
be a number represented as a 64 bit floating point, a string, a boolean,

> or an object. Not only is it an any, but `JsValue` is ultimately engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or an object. Not only is it an `any`, but `JsValue` is ultimately engine
```

defined with various implementations existing across engines.

While this is handy for a dynamically typed language like JavaScript, it
is not ideal for implementing deep language specifications where an
object or string may need to be cloned. Furthermore, it's just not great
for an API in a typed language like Rust.

To work around this, we routinely use `FromStr` and a `FiniteF64` custom

> primitive to handle casting and constraining, respectively, to adapt
> values for use with a typed API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
primitive to handle casting and constraining, respectively, which
glues dynamic types like `JsValue` with a typed API.
```

For instance, in Boa, we heavily lean into using the below patterns:

```rust
// (Note: this is abridged for readability)

// FiniteF64 usage
let number: f64 = js_value.to_number(context)?;
let finite_f64: FiniteF64 = FiniteF64::try_from(number)?;
let year: i32 = finite_f64.as_integer_with_truncation::<i32>();

// FromStr usage with `get_option`
let options_obj: &JsObject = get_options_object(&js_value)?;
let overflow: Option<ArithmeticOverflow> = get_option::<ArithmeticOverflow>(
    &options_obj,
    js_string!("overflow"),
    context
)?;
```

This is the core glue between Boa and the `temporal_rs` API that we will
be going over below.

## Implementing constructors

> There are a variety of ways to construct a core component like
> `PlainDate`, and that stems from the core constructor for each of the
> core components `new_with_overflow`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a variety of ways to construct a core component like
`PlainDate`, and that stems from the core constructor for each of the
core components: `new_with_overflow`.
```

```rust
impl PlainDate {
    pub fn new_with_overflow(year: i32, month: u8, day: u8, calendar: Calendar, overflow: ArithmeticOverflow) -> Result<Self> {
        // Create PlainDate
    }
}
```

This function supports the baseline construction of Temporal builtins,
which takes the usual year, month, day, alongside a calendar and also an
overflow option to constrain or reject based on whether the provided
values are in an expected range.

However, we can better express this in Rust with common `try_` prefix
notation.

```rust
impl PlainDate {
    pub fn new(year: i32, month: u8, day: u8, calendar: Calendar) -> Result<Self> {
        Self::new_with_overflow(year, month, day, calendar, ArithmeticOverflow::Constrain)
    }

    pub fn try_new(year: i32, month: u8, day: u8, calendar: Calendar) -> Result<Self> {
        Self::new_with_overflow(year, month, day, calendar, ArithmeticOverflow::Reject)
    }
}
```

These three constructors, `new_with_overflow`, `try_new`, and `new`, are
fairly flexible and provide full coverage of the Temporal specification.

> For instance, take the below constructor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, take the below snippet:
```

```js
const plainDate = new Temporal.PlainDate(2025, 6, 9);
```

> Can easily be conveyed in Rust as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code can easily be translated to Rust as:
```

```rust
use temporal_rs::PlainDate;
let plain_date = PlainDate::try_new(2025, 6, 9, Calendar::default())?;
```

> We actually learn some interesting things immediately about the
> JavaScript API from looking at the `temporal_rs` API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, we actually learn some interesting things about the
JavaScript API from looking at the `temporal_rs` API:
```

> 1. `Temporal.PlainDate` constructor can throw.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The `Temporal.PlainDate` constructor can throw.
```

2. When the calendar is omitted, the default calendar is used (this will
   default to the `iso8601` calendar)

Of course, if you somewhat prefer the brevity of the JavaScript API and
don't want to list the default `Calendar`, `temporal_rs` provides the
additional constructors `new_iso` and `try_new_iso`.

```rust
use temporal_rs::PlainDate;
let plain_date = PlainDate::try_new_iso(2025, 6, 9)?;
```

Interestingly enough, the `_iso` constructors are actually extensions of
Temporal specification to provide a similar API in Rust. This is because
the `_iso` constructors are assumed to exist due to resolving an

> `undefined` calendar to the default ISO calendar.

Reviewer: I think "extensions of Temporal specification" implies that these are in the way of being implemented in the Temporal spec. Maybe we should remove this paragraph; most of this text already implies that these are just Rust-exclusive APIs.

Author: Yeah, I wasn't the biggest fan of the wording either. I was mostly trying to add a bit better of paragraph to conclude the section. I'll try and retool it if I can. If not, I'll delete it.

## Let's discuss `Now`

> Colonel Sandurz: Now. You're looking at now, sir. Everything that
> happens now, is happening now.<br></br> Dark Helmet: What happened to
> then?<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: We passed then.<br></br> Dark Helmet:
> When?<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: Just now. We're at now now.<br></br>
> Dark Helmet: Go back to then.<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: When?<br></br>
> Dark Helmet: Now.<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: Now?<br></br> Dark Helmet:
> Now.<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: I can't.<br></br> Dark Helmet:
> Why?<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: We missed it.<br></br> Dark Helmet:
> When?<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: Just now.<br></br> Dark Helmet: When
> will then be now?<br></br> -- <cite>Spaceballs, 1987</cite>

`Temporal.Now` is an incredibly strange type, yet nevertheless
important. It is the object from which the current instant can be
measured and mapped into any of the Temporal components.

> In JavaScript, this type has no `[[Construct]]` or `[[Call]]` internal
> method, which is a fancy way to say that Now has no constructor and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In JavaScript, this type has no `[[Construct]]` or `[[Call]]` internal
methods, which is a fancy way to say that Now has no constructor and
```

Also, we should link to https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/ordinary-and-exotic-objects-behaviours.html#sec-ecmascript-function-objects-call-thisargument-argumentslist and https://tc39.es/ecma262/multipage/ordinary-and-exotic-objects-behaviours.html#sec-ecmascript-function-objects-construct-argumentslist-newtarget for the curious ones.

cannot be called directly.

Instead, Now is used primarily as a namespace for its methods.

And this was reflected in early adaptions of Now, which looked more or
less like the below:

```rust
struct Now;

impl Now {
    pub fn instant() -> Instant;

    pub fn zoned_date_time_iso() -> ZonedDateTime;
}
```

Interestingly enough, the above implementation is incorrect, or at the
very least not ideal.

Hidden in the specification steps for Now are some very tricky steps
invoking the abstract operations: `SystemTimeZoneIdentifier` and
`SystemUtcEpochNanoseconds`. That's great, let's just use the usual
suspects `SystemTime` and `iana-time-zone`, merge it, and call it a day
on the implementation, right?

> Except the core purpose of `temporal_rs` is that it can be used in any
> engine implementation, accessing a system clock and system time zone are
> not in scope and must be left up to the engine or runtime to provide
> that functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Except the core purpose of `temporal_rs` is that it can be used in any
engine implementation, and accessing a system clock and system time zone
is sometimes difficult for engines that support targets like embedded systems.
Thus, this functionality must be delegated to the engine or runtime ... somehow.
```

> So how did we end up implementing Now if we have no access to the system
> clock or time zone? Well, a builder pattern of course!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How did we end up implementing `Now` if we have no access to the system
clock or time zone? Well ... a builder pattern of course!
```

```rust
#[derive(Default)]
pub struct NowBuilder {
    clock: Option<EpochNanoseconds>,
    zone: Option<TimeZone>,
}

impl NowBuilder {
    pub fn with_system_nanoseconds(mut self, nanoseconds: EpochNanoseconds) -> Self {
        self.clock = Some(nanoseconds);
        self
    }

    pub fn with_system_zone(mut self, zone: TimeZone) -> Self {
        self.zone = Some(zone);
        self
    }

    pub fn build(self) -> Now {
        Now {
            clock: self.clock,
            zone: self.zone.unwrap_or_default(),
        }
    }
}

pub struct Now {
    clock: Option<EpochNanoseconds>,
    zone: TimeZone,
}
```

> 

Reviewer: We should also explain how we call the API from Boa, just to show the correct usage of the builder.

Once we've constructed `Now`, then we are off to the races!

The nice part about this approach is that it also allows a `std`
implementation that can be feature gated for general users that are not
concerned with `no_std`.

```rust
    // Available with the `sys` feature flag
    use temporal_rs::Temporal;
    let now = Temporal::now().instant();
```

## Partial API

There's an interesting method on each of the Temporal built-ins that I'd

> assume most people who have used Rust would be familiar with `from`. But

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assume most people who have used Rust would be familiar with: `from`. But
```

this isn't Rust's friendly `From` trait. No, this `from` is a behemoth
method that takes a `JsValue` and automagically gives you back the
built-in that you'd like or throws. That's right! Give it a string, give

> it a property bag, give it another built-in; `from` will figure it out
> for you!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it a property bag, give it an instance of another Temporal built-in;
`from` will figure it out for you!
```

Simple, right?

> Well we're pleased to announce that `temporal_rs` won't be supporting
> that! ... At least in one method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Folks, we're pleased to announce that `temporal_rs` won't be supporting
that! ... or at least not in that shape.
```

> Again, the goal of `temporal_rs` is to implement the specification to
> the highest degree possible and where it can't implement the
> specification like in the case of a `from<JsValue>`, it provides methods
> to support the implementation of Temporal in engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, the goal of `temporal_rs` is to implement the specification to
the highest possible degree of conformance, so when we couldn't provide
a direct translation of the specification's API, we made sure to
provide APIs that (hopefully) made the glue code between engines and
`temporal_rs` much shorter.
```

> Let's take a look at some valid uses of `from` in JavaScript to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exemplify this, let's take a look at some valid uses of `from` in JavaScript to
```

construct a `PlainDate`.

```js
// Create a `PlainDateTime`
const pdt = new Temporal.PlainDateTime(2025, 1, 1);
// We can use the `PlainDateTime` (`ZonedDateTime` / `PlainDate` are also options).
const pd_from_pdt = Temporal.PlainDate.from(pdt);
// We can use a string.
const pd_from_string = Temporal.PlainDate.from("2025-01-01");
// We can use a property bag.
const pd_from_property_bag = Temporal.PlainDate.from({
  year: 2025,
  month: 1,
  day: 1,
});
```

> It turns out that the above operations is all that needs to be
> implemented by `temporal_rs` in order to support a Temporal
> implementation, we just need to implement `From<PlainDateTime>`,
> `From<ZonedDateTime>`, `FromStr`, and `From<JsObject>` ... oh. Did I
> mention `JsObject`, like `JsValue`, is implementation defined as well?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we look closely to the common usage of the method, it seems like
all that needs to be implemented by `temporal_rs` is:
- `From<PlainDateTime>`: Easy.
- `From<ZonedDateTime>`: Simple.
- `FromStr`: Tricky but can be done.
- `From<JsObject>`: ...
... oh. Did I mention `JsObject`, like `JsValue`, is engine defined as well?
```

> This is where `temporal_rs`'s Partial API comes in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, this is where `temporal_rs`'s Partial API comes in.
```

> It turns out that while property bags in JavaScript can have various

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It turns out that, while property bags in JavaScript can have various
```

fields set, there is still a general shape for the fields that can be
provided and validated in Temporal.

> So in order to support this in `temporal_rs`, a "partial" component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support this in `temporal_rs`, a "partial" component
```

exists for each of the components that can then be provided to that

> components `from_partial` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
component's `from_partial` method.
```

With this, we have fully implemented support for the `from` method in
`temporal_rs`:

```rust
use core::str::FromStr;
use temporal_rs::{PlainDate, PlainDateTime, partial::PartialDate};
let pdt = PlainDateTime::try_new_iso(2025, 1, 1)?;
// We can use the `PlainDateTime` (`ZonedDateTime` / `PlainDate` are also options).
let pd_from_pdt = PlainDate::from(pdt);
// We can use a `str`.
let pd_from_string = PlainDate::from_str("2025-01-01")?;
// We can use a `PartialDate`.
let pd_from_partial = PlainDate::from_partial(PartialDate {
    year: Some(2025),
    month: Some(1),
    day: Some(1),
    ..Default::default()
});
```

**NOTE:** there may be updates to `PartialDate` in the future (see
[boa-dev/temporal #349](https://github.com/boa-dev/temporal/issues/349)
for more information).

## Elephant in the room: time zones

So far we have not discussed time zones, and -- surprise! -- we aren't
going to ... yet. It's not because they aren't super cool and

> interesting and everyone totally 100% loves them. No, time zones aren't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interesting and everyone _totally_ 100% loves them. No, time zones aren't
```

> in this post, because they are still being polished and deserve an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in this post because they are still being polished and deserve an
```

entire post of their own.

So stay tuned for our next post on implementing Temporal! The one where
we'll hopefully go over everyone's favorite subject, time zones; and
answer the question that some of you may have if you happen to take a
glance at `temporal_rs`'s docs or try out our `no_std` support: what in
the world is a provider API?

## Conclusion

In conclusion, we're implementing Temporal in Rust to support engine
implementors as well as to have the API available in native Rust in
general.

Boa currently sits at a [90% conformance rate][boa-test262] for Temporal
completely backed by `temporal_rs` v0.0.8, and we're aiming to be 100%
conformant before the end of the year.

If you're interested in trying Temporal using Boa, you can use it in
Boa's CLI or enable it in `boa_engine` with the `experimental` flag.

Outside of Boa's implementation, `temporal_rs` has implemented or
supports the implementation for a large portion of the Temporal's API in

> native Rust.

Reviewer: We already mentioned this at the start, so it seems unnecessary to mention it again.

Author: I noticed it to reading back through :laughing: I tried to differentiate the two a little more. But I can take a pass at building it out a bit more.

> If you're interested in trying out `temporal_rs`, feel free to add to
> your project with Cargo:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're interested in trying out `temporal_rs`, feel free to add it to
your dependencies with the command:
```

```bash
cargo add temporal_rs
```

> or by adding the below to your `Cargo.toml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or by adding the below in the `[dependencies]` section of your `Cargo.toml`:
```

```toml
temporal_rs = "0.0.9"
```

A FFI version of temporal is also available for C and C++ via

> `temporal_capi`.

Reviewer: Link to `temporal_capi`?

> ## General note on API stability

Reviewer: Could be a footnote instead? Seems weird to have an additional section after the "conclusion"

Author: Yeah, I struggled with the ordering of this. I'll look into making it a footnote. I still think it's important information to add. As it would be nice to encourage people to play around with `temporal_rs`, but there's still probably some known breaking changes that are upcoming.

Author: Tried making it a markdown footnote. It didn't seem to render on docusaurus.

EDIT: NVM, formatting issue

---
layout: post
tags: [post]
title:
  Implementing Temporal, the new date/time API for JavaScript (and
  Rust!)
metadata: ["temporal", "temporal_rs", "boa", "date/time"]
description:
  A blog post about the temporal_rs Rust crate that implements
  JavaScript's Temporal API and how temporal_rs supports implementing
  Temporal in JavaScript engines.
authors: boa-dev
---

Writing a JavaScript engine in Rust can seem like pretty daunting task
to some. To provide some insight into how we implement JavaScript
features, we will be going over implementing a JavaScript feature in
Rust.

More specifically, this will be the first in a series of posts primarily
about implementing the new date/time built-in: Temporal. We'll be going
over general lessons and interesting design choices we've stumbled upon,
as well as the crates supporting that implementation.

> Why should you care? Well we are not only implementing Temporal for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why should you care? Well, we are not only implementing Temporal for
```

In JavaScript, Temporal is a global built-in namespace object that
includes each of these nine built-ins:

- `Temporal.Now`
- `Temporal.PlainDate`
- `Temporal.PlainTime`
- `Temporal.PlainDateTime`
- `Temporal.ZonedDateTime`
- `Temporal.Duration`
- `Temporal.Instant`
- `Temporal.PlainYearMonth`
- `Temporal.PlainMonthDay`

But to be honest, this post isn't meant to give an overview of Temporal
and its general API. If Temporal is news to you and you are interested
in learning more, feel free to check out the phenomenal [MDN
documentation][mdn-temporal].

## Back on track

Being Boa a JavaScript engine / interpreter, developing a correct
implementation of the ECMAScript specification is our raison d'être.
This, in consequence, makes implementing Temporal one of our most
important goals, since it represents roughly 7-8% of the current
conformance test suite (~4000 of the ~50,000 tests).

When the PR of the first prototype of Temporal for Boa was submitted, a
few things became evident:

1. Date/Time is a complicated beast (duh)
2. There's room for optimization and improvement
3. This would be handy to have in Rust

So after the prototype was merged, we pulled it out of Boa's internal

> builtins and externalized into its own crate,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
builtins and externalized it into its own crate,
```

[`temporal_rs`][temporal-rs-repo], which landed behind an experimental
flag in Boa v0.18.

After over a year and a half of development, Boa now sits at a
conformance of about 90% for Temporal (and growing), with the entire
implementation being backed by `temporal_rs`.

For its part, `temporal_rs` is shaping up to be a proper Rust date/time
library that can be used to implement Temporal in a JavaScript engine,
and even support general date/time use cases.

Let's take a look at Temporal: it's JavaScript API, it's Rust API in
`temporal_rs`, and how `temporal_rs` supports implementing the
specification.

## Important core differences

First, we need to talk about JavaScript values (`JsValue`) for a bit.
This is functionally the core `any` value type of JavaScript. A
`JsValue` could be a number represented as a 64 bit floating point, a
string, a boolean, or an object. Not only is it an `any`, but `JsValue`

> is ultimately engine defined with various implementations existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is ultimately engine defined, with various implementations existing
```

an `undefined` calendar to the default ISO calendar.

## Let's discuss `Now`

> Colonel Sandurz: Now. You're looking at now, sir. Everything that
> happens now, is happening now.<br></br> Dark Helmet: What happened to
> then?<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: We passed then.<br></br> Dark Helmet:
> When?<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: Just now. We're at now now.<br></br>
> Dark Helmet: Go back to then.<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: When?<br></br>
> Dark Helmet: Now.<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: Now?<br></br> Dark Helmet:
> Now.<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: I can't.<br></br> Dark Helmet:
> Why?<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: We missed it.<br></br> Dark Helmet:
> When?<br></br> Colonel Sandurz: Just now.<br></br> Dark Helmet: When
> will then be now?<br></br> -- <cite>Spaceballs, 1987</cite>

`Temporal.Now` is an incredibly strange type, yet nevertheless
important. It is the object from which the current instant can be
measured and mapped into any of the Temporal components.

In JavaScript, this type has no [`[[Construct]]`][construct-link] or
[`[[Call]]`][call-link] internal method, which is a fancy way to say
that Now has no constructor and cannot be called directly.

> Instead, Now is used primarily as a namespace for its methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, `Now` is used primarily as a namespace for its methods.
```

> And this was reflected in early adaptions of Now, which looked more or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And this was reflected in early adaptions of `Now`, which looked more or
```

less like the below:

```rust
struct Now;

impl Now {
    pub fn instant() -> Instant;

    pub fn zoned_date_time_iso() -> ZonedDateTime;
}
```

Interestingly enough, the above implementation is incorrect, or at the
very least not ideal.

> Hidden in the specification steps for Now are some very tricky steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hidden in the specification steps for `Now` are some very tricky steps
```

on the implementation, right?

Except the core purpose of `temporal_rs` is that it can be used in any
engine implementation, and accessing a system clock and system time zone
is sometimes difficult for engines that support targets like embedded
systems. Thus, this functionality must be delegated to the engine or
runtime ... somehow.

How did we end up implementing `Now` if we have no access to the system
clock or time zone? Well ... a builder pattern of course!

```rust
#[derive(Default)]
pub struct NowBuilder {
    clock: Option<EpochNanoseconds>,
    zone: Option<TimeZone>,
}

impl NowBuilder {
    pub fn with_system_nanoseconds(mut self, nanoseconds: EpochNanoseconds) -> Self {
        self.clock = Some(nanoseconds);
        self
    }

    pub fn with_system_zone(mut self, zone: TimeZone) -> Self {
        self.zone = Some(zone);
        self
    }

    pub fn build(self) -> Now {
        Now {
            clock: self.clock,
            zone: self.zone.unwrap_or_default(),
        }
    }
}

pub struct Now {
    clock: Option<EpochNanoseconds>,
    zone: TimeZone,
}
```

Once we've constructed `Now`, then we are off to the races!

> In Boa, implementing `Now` is as easy the below implementation for

Reviewer: Wording seems a bit wonky here. "is as easy the below" specifically

Author: Yeah, I tried rewording it in a new commit. Matching it up with  the tone of "off to the races" is a bit odd I think.

> `Temporal.Now.plainDateISO()` with the builder API is the below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show the `NowBuilder` in action, in Boa, the implementation for
`Temporal.Now.plainDateISO()` with the builder API is shown below:
```

the world is a provider API?

## Conclusion

In conclusion, we're implementing Temporal in Rust to support engine
implementors as well as to have the API available in native Rust in
general.

If you're interested in trying Temporal using Boa, you can use it in
Boa's CLI or enable it in `boa_engine` with the `experimental` flag.

Outside of Boa's implementation, `temporal_rs` has implemented or
supports the implementation for a large portion of the Temporal's API in
native Rust. Furthermore, an overwhelming amount of the API can be
considered stable[^stability] and is currently available in Boa with
only a few outstanding issues that may be considered breaking changes.

If you're interested in trying out `temporal_rs`, feel free to add it to
your dependencies with the command:

```bash
cargo add temporal_rs
```

or by adding the below in the `[dependencies]` section of your
`Cargo.toml`:

```toml
temporal_rs = "0.0.9"
```

A FFI version of temporal is also available for C and C++ via
[`temporal_capi`][temporal-capi].

[^stability]: A general note on API stability

    While the majority of the APIs discussed above are expected to be

>     mostly stable. Temporal is still a stage 3 proposal that is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mostly stable, Temporal is still a stage 3 proposal that is not
```

    fully accepted into the ECMAScript specification. Any normative
    change that may be made upstream in the ECMAScript or ECMA402
    specification will also be reflected in `temporal_rs`.

    There are also a few outstanding issues with changes that may

>     reflect in the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    be reflected in the API.
```
